+++
title = 'California Wildfire Updates'
date = 2025-01-09T23:51:05-08:00
+++

I updated a couple beliefs on the basis of these fires.

## NEPA is worse than you think

{{< twitter user="tahrajirari" id="1877110097790312519" >}}

It turns out that it takes years to get approval to do prescribed burns in
California. Even mechanical treatment takes over a year to get a NEPA decision.
With litigation, the average timeline goes up to 9.4 years. We know how to
control fires, but we don't allow our government to do it.

Some will blame activists, but the way the law works any project can be sued if
it doesn't proactively conduct a very expensive and time-consuming
environmental review, which effectively makes it necessary to do so. Ezra Klein
has written about this 
[here](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/06/12/opinion/traffic-congestion-new-york-climate-policy.html).
Environmental regulation is complex, but there must be a better way to achieve
the goal of protecting the environment, while still enabling crucial ecological
interventions.

## The fire insurance market is broken in Caliofrnia

{{< twitter user="kimmaicutler" id="1877507193408467008" >}}

In 1988, California passed Proposition 103, which required public hearings to
raise insurance rates. Naturally that makes it quite difficult to raise rates.
Given that fire-prone areas are increasingly expensive to insure, insurers are
dropping coverage from customers in these areas. In fact, in Pacific Palisades
specifically, thousands of homes were dropped from fire insurance.

Because this is California, there's even a non-profit grift incolving an
organization called Consumer Watchdog that, ironically, profits from contesting
rate increases through something called the "intervenor process". But that's
another story.

There is an "insurer of last resort" called the California FAIR Plan, but it's
almost illiquid.  It has about $385M in cash and $2.5B in reinsurance. Its
exposure to the current LA fires is in the neighborhood of $24B. In the likely
event that it can't pay out, it will split the remaining costs among all
insurers in the state, proportional to market share.  Those insurers will then
pass this on to their customers in the form of a surcharge, that could reach
thousands of dollars. It's possible this will also drive insurers out of the
state (because they don't want to risk being saddled with this liability),
increasing insurance rates everywhere, regardless of fire risk.

## Nobody seems concerned about moral hazard

The big problem with having homeowners throughout the state paying out to the
wealthy homeowners in fire prone areas, aside from that being highly
distributionally regressive, is that it creates a moral hazard. Fire prone
areas are constantly being developed and redeveloped. Instead of taking on the
risk of negative outcomes, homeowners know they will receive generous insurance
payouts in the event of a fire. This means we'll see more people building in
these areas, more fires, more homes destroyed, and more payouts from the
homeowners who did not choose dangerous locations to live.


## The war on prices

All of this insurance business relates to people's distrust of prices.
Insurance premia could serve as a quantitative indicator of the risk of
building and owning homes, if insurance premia were allowed reflected reality.
Instead they're not allowed to adjust, resulting in homes being uninsured or
bailed out by the state with all the moral hazard that entails. 
Relevant book (that I still haven't yet read) 
[here](https://www.amazon.com/War-Prices-Popular-Misconceptions-Inflation/dp/1952223865).

## Other things people are talking about.

* There are reports of looting and arson, are people less prosocial than we think?
* I'm seeing throwaway takes implicating climate change but have yet to see a more serious assessment of the role of climate change in these fires.
